alright hello everyone and welcome to
the June 3rd J escort team week weekly
sync I'll miss out so I will be stepping
in bashko thanks for taking notes and we
will go ahead and kick things off if you
haven't updated and the crib pad please
do that now we'll run through and talk
about what we did last week what we're
blocked on and what we're going to be
doing this week
alright and I'm first so I'll get
started
yeah last week was pretty much all
preparation for ipfs camp doing a little
p2p workshop for that I'll be continuing
on that this week presentation is mostly
done so hopefully I should have most of
the work finished in the next few days
and then I will be starting on finishing
up a draft of the auto not spec auto net
is currently in go and while we're
putting on Jas we need to actually get
the spec right now so I'll be working on
that this week last week helped out with
an issue with the ipfs inter up to go RC
was having some issues so we worked on
that so that is fixed now ended up
creating an issue as related to that
with the switch and switch when we dial
we currently blacklist based on peer but
ideally we would do be doing that by
multi address since addresses for Pierce
can change over time if we're doing a
dial back off and we learn a new address
we don't want to completely have that
peer blacklisted on things like auto at
an auto relay will help us
improve our addresses over time in so
making sure that we're actually doing
that we'll begin and yeah and then if
time permits I will also work on getting
that auto networks are damaged yes
any questions for me
now all right Vasko
hey guys so last week I mostly work in
pub sub modules with the integration of
the gossip so basically the all the
other modules were not running tests in
the browser I don't know why but I
enable it the browser test in all of
them semi shoot appears but I fixed them
all and I also created the PR for
enabling the test in gossip reserves yes
also in the floods of dementia marks
were also updated and I also applied to
them and in the within you really is for
a go lipid to be and with issues that
Jacob described I also updated the
goalie per to be version in the early
between their up tests and everything
was ok in that site so I'm currently
blocked in I can assess for ipfs
interrupt basically what is happening is
that when recent PR I think from Alex
upgraded the ideas from 0.5 to 0.7
something is broken just in Linux and
basically an ibanez test is breaking
just in Linux because of the see IDs I'm
trying to figure out but if any of you
have ideas it will be welcome so for
this week I will continue working with
for the gossips of integration basically
we are now missing only tests for having
a bridge network with both flat 7 the
gossip sub nodes but there is also a
problem with that in gospel stuff so
maybe I will call it as well as to test
for that then regarding the interface
connection I didn't have that time last
week to get any more progress on that
but this week I want to at least iterate
the proposal in one of the pair's for
this thing it's raitis migration or for
TCP or for the WebSockets when
and in Morris think it's Reiter's work
if I can handle it and that's everything
for me any questions now all right Thank
You Roscoe next up is Volker
so I've been working on some of the
multi-format stuff to clean up things a
bit because things like multi streams
isn't an actual thing how to get it
removed and also making Marty codecs
cleaner so I would also put the PRS in
there so if you want to have any
opinions about it or yeah I can chime in
please do and then I've created I've
there's an iPod a graph with script to
output the an iPod DTEC basically as
Travis and I just changed a bit to also
output terrorists so for those who don't
know it it's just JavaScript thing to
visualize graphs and I just wanted to
see how it looks like I figured out it
doesn't work well for Dex but yeah it
was a nice try anyway and next I will
work on again my do stuff does tech
stuff on iCarly and I will look a bit
into who wasn't in regards to i-40
because we want to experiment a bit with
it err and yeah and that's all I have
all right any questions for over
No all right next up Jim so I'm just
more working with Ladell he go on car C
got the I just gave a demo in the weekly
talk but the HTTP signed exchanges and I
built a docker image with all this
little signing bits that allows people
to really get hub account to go in and
try out this demo and they can publish
some content and if they have this
extent extension loaded they can view
content using this new feature in Chrome
let's see
and that's revealed a bunch of issues I
probably need to investigate that might
be other bugs I'm still blocked on I
feel fast cluster issues for puberty
spinner it sort of fell over after you
I'm sort of think I might try to set up
my own IP FS cluster just to see if I
can
understand what's going on there so this
week I'm going to dedicate some time to
I profess camp I had a bunch of things I
wanted to do with Tesla and I was
talking with good'd last week about
content discovery and trying to get some
something going on that to see if we can
get some testing around that and I'll
try to dig into these bugs which I seem
to be able to reliably trigger so that's
it for me
right any questions for Jim
okay next is school
guys we're gonna share my screen just to
show you some stuff very quickly okay so
what I've been doing
I did the driving fingerprinting version
using laws which you can see the length
but I'd show you here so basically I
used I implemented this module using
assembly script and basically ported the
though the library we have been using
until now which will in C++ to assembly
script compile it to us and made it work
in dropper and because the old one
didn't have much maintenance and will
with no twelve did work so we needed
some way to run Robin Alex already had
Jason permutation with as you can see
there were some portion is way faster
than the pure various motion one thing
about is its if we get this much it will
be the first one was module into
Jessica's code base which is pretty cool
thing so let's see also I'm preparing
Jessica face and HTTP client for a new
version and also adding some some new
stuff which is electron tests a JFS
already passing all the tests in the
main in the main process and
the render process httpclient
still airing out some places but at
least in the main process of electrum
all this fuss so hopefully I managed to
fix everything and have wolf at least
these probably sweepers running inside
the process I also have you in some
sessions for the teachers camp courses
we buy the one gym and also I've been
working on the DNS resolver for IPS or
the this week I'll probably just do the
dns resolver and camp sessions and
hopefully fix this like errors let's be
any questions
all right questions and Alex hello so
over the last week I've been trying to
push some of the async/await peers
forward a bit so it got all the FS level
and cool datastore ones out which was
cool a bunch of the work and had already
been done but like just - he asked him
to stagnated a little bit so I was
taking on some of that work and updating
them and you know addressing the PR
comments and all that kind of stuff so
the datastore ones went out I've been
working on the IPS repo are still a few
more things to do about that around that
about like making functions async even
though there's no actual a sink in them
which is interesting but you know their
documentation says that's what the API
is we should probably do that so yeah I
also made house which was really
time-consuming
so I was tedious so next up I'm going to
merge heroes Robin was important because
I was super exciting like it's the kind
of thing we could probably just get rid
of the compiled version because near the
C version because like coming to compile
native modules is one of those things
that makes it hard for new contributors
to get involved with the project you
know like I need to install Xcode but
you know after they've worked out that's
what they needed to do to solve all the
weird problems their game so to remove
those native modules would be fantastic
so you know it is slow but much slower
so that that's the thing has a PR open
on more tests I cannot merge that I'm
really sorry my inbox is an absolute car
crash I need to spend some time working
on the lid p2p workshop wrote Because
camp
the idea is to have like some kind of
graphical representation over nodes of
view of the network which would be super
fly can I work on the am/pm in a box for
the IVFs camp science well actually have
them put in a box right here although
ironically in a box that is very shifty
China and it hasn't the right anyway
should its dispatch search and chaos
unit
yeah I'm Kenna then if I have any time
left
try and slap him and IVFs deployment
needs upgrading and I finally got access
to folder eight of us stuff that I need
I like it cardboard boxes actually in a
3d print one here worst comes to the
worst but yeah anyway so I've got access
to the AWS stuff that I needed to clued
in periodically first not on a bunch of
docker containers on one machine I can
put it onto the you know the next
complete thing yes cool that's me any
questions
to be lots of exciting things happening
and I know there's a lot of things one
per person for the camp but I want to
ask anyway is there any plan to get
their blog post that describes the store
data on an s3 will that be fun for camp
or lab for future yeah I mean that like
well I don't want to happen is for
people to see the blog post get all
excited and then try and hit him have an
idea fast and that's not as fast as it
could because we've already got like
some weird you know we've got some some
stuff so like the pls open against NPM
itself like the stats in there you know
pretty slow and anything that doesn't
contribute to this ideas ipfs is slow I
think is a good thing so they really
want to get it like as fast as possible
before people start hitting it the part
that would be the deployments once
that's done I think it would be in a
much better position to publish that
booklet what about just easily might be
as far as the backend would that change
anything in terms of like screen and
does service on my list to experiment
with it to try and see if that makes it
first because they were definitely you
know in the absence of the chairs tht
then you know it would have to make
things more discoverable garnet Thank
You Jimmy other questions for Alex
you okay Turk you didn't add an update
but do you want to give one oh you don't
see yeah
I count arms and maybe it's frozen oh
okay yeah sorry about that I'll make
sure it gets in there
so yeah this week I was just working on
a couple of bugs with the DHT and bit
swap so one bug in bit swap was kind of
a security issue that will basically
write to the disk anything that anyone
sends to us so I just changed it so
it'll actually check that those things
are in the one list first which is what
the government plantation does and then
with the DHT when we were providing we
were sending to all the providers a list
of all the providers instead of saying
to all the providers our own CID same
like our providers so just the way it
was implemented it didn't actually
matter if we were just talking to a
jeaious DHT but talking to a go DHT we
wouldn't be providing the corrects CID
so yeah I wouldn't've been possible to
actually provide anything to it go HD so
hopefully that should improve DHT
performance and and then I completed a
garbage collection implementation so
that's ready for a code review I think
with ipfs camp it might be a couple of
weeks before the code reviews is done
but a community member just reached out
about half an hour ago saying that they
really want to use it and so I'm gonna
try and get them to kind of test it out
in sorry it's New York out there I'm
gonna ask them to try and test it out in
a real-world environment make sure it
works and I created an issue for
profiles that is basically just like a
nickname for a bunch of configuration
stuff so you can have a profile from
browsers for low-power devices like
mobile devices and for we're running in
a data center or whatever and finally
I'm also working on reviewing a repo
migration tool that's being created by a
very helpful community member who's been
putting a ton of time into it so trying
to help him with that when the next
I'm going to work on the implementation
for profiles any questions
No all right that is it for updates
I'll move on to crossing updates with
Lydell
just a quick shoutout mostly working on
ipfs count staff and stabilizing stuff
that we need for courses but I managed
to squeeze out a new beta release of
ipfs companion some I asked is to
install the latest better but I linked
in the notes and let me know if anything
is wonky we want to stabilize this
version before right if as comp and
there's like a related development so
that right I demoed it on the other
color but it's so cool here as well so
breath nightly is like a super developer
channel from that bright team and if you
run the brave from the channel and you
go to settings and you scroll down you
see that brave comes up with way back
web torrent support and hangout plugging
out of the box and now ipfs companion is
there as well so you can install a
profess component of way without going
to any App Store and it's the same
version that is in the Chrome Web Store
so that's more or less my other awesome
any questions reliable
No all right a few other notes Rushville
is out on the 10th for a public holiday
Walker is out for a few days in there
and then Alan is out this week so if you
need anything from him
you probably need to wait till next week
to do and then
you have a few more people on the call
Terry or Prabhakar yeah sorry I you know
earlier the phone app Center who I'm
interrupting
um I am kind of back part-time ish now
as things start to get a little bit more
settled with the family so my big
priority right now is doing that MF s
cold published on protocol which is
super close we're kind of at the
proofing stage Co go did some work on it
while I'm out so Allen has taken a quick
read through before he left for vacation
and Diedrich has offered to do some
testing this week if anyone else would
like to volunteer to be a guinea pig and
run through and see what you find
confusing about it just reach out to me
it's my understanding right now that the
only of all the people creating
workshops for chance that the only
person planning on doing anything with
protocool is Allen his planning on using
the MS tutorial so if any of you on this
call are doing something think you're
doing proto school please reach out and
let me know so deals when I can kinda
schedule in enough time to give you the
help that you need this week and next
week before we're all in Barcelona I
think that's it great any questions for
Terri
nope all right
you want to give an update at all are
you just hanging out so I've been
working on a couple of minor issues
adding flags and stuff like that I've
just been working for two weeks now I
found a little bit of problems doing
bigger issues there are not much
descriptions or it's not very beginner
friendly and stuff like that also
finding it a little difficult for
getting responses from Ireland is I
think it's really busy that's what I've
been working on I'd see if I can get
more work done this week are you taking
any as you go through and you're like
hitting these obstacles we take any
notes or posting any issues I think it's
little bit difficult debugging things
also because after I push the core it
takes like half an hour to one hour for
build and stuff and then finally it
feels and I have no idea what has gone
wrong when I see the logs also and yeah
and I have to look go really deep to
find out what's the problem with things
breaking up in different part of the
code which I have not even worked on so
those parts are it is not not very
smooth I would say okay if as you go
into that stuff if you would even just
like person issue in the repo and then
just tack on your notes as you're kind
of going through and have issues that
would be super helpful because then we
can look at okay what are issues that we
can resolve quickly to get quick wins
and maybe there's some stuff that we can
post as far as like isolating tests that
could help the debugging Dirk yeah I
actually open an issue about making it
easier to contribute to JSF BFS so it'll
be super helpful if you could post your
any troubles you're having or any any
ideas you have about how we can make
that easier and the other thing I'd say
is you know firstly thank you very much
for taking the time to contribute and
secondly when you when you see an issue
that you you think you'd be interested
in taking on but there's not enough
information please feel free to just say
like hey okay
you know where should I start with this
because we have a lot of knowledge in
our head so you know maybe we can just
sort of get you started on it okay cool
all right does I think that's everybody
does anybody have any other questions
comments Dirk
yeah I was just wondering so there's
quite a bit of discussion in the last
few weeks around the DHD and kind of
that being ready for for the different
products um and I was wondering are we
sort of like tracking that like do we do
we have a plan I guess but for how we
have and when we're gonna release it I
yeah so I think we I don't think we
still have the awesome endeavor for that
we should have an issue for tracking
that I know right now the major thing is
getting the config update and then doing
some testing on that so we should get an
issue created if it's not already
created and then list out those items I
will take that as an action of what we
need to get released
bashko I think there is an issue or a
full request from Alan in jessup effete
scribbler yeah for reenable in the DHD
but I think we need to follow up in
there for because there's some config
updates I was doing and then we need to
actually do think also resync up like
that one day we jumped on and did the
depressing DHT discovery call locally
I'll connect to bootstrap the failed I
think going through and doing another
some more practical exercises of that
additionally would be helpful to at
least verify that we have what we need
there yeah I think there's some
additional stuff that we probably want
to do previously talked about that we
should add the issue for tracking which
was adding for for the CLI for anybody
running that we're probably gonna need
to do um some keep alive for that
otherwise the if a DHT query takes
longer than 60 seconds which if we're
running against a lot of browser nodes
it could take that long if we run into
that scenario the the socket will
timeout on the HTTP API and then the CLI
will just
the sockeye hang up so I think we should
make sure that at least stays open for
the duration query yeah we may need
Reaper writing as well right
yeah so go does that runs the Reaper by
we'll need to add that to JSL ipfs
because I think the default timeout is
one day so that will get cycled out at
the DHT so I think you'd mentioned that
Goethe does a 12-hour reap revise
because otherwise yeah we can't
automatically do that in the DHT because
we it doesn't know if we have the
content or not so we'll have to do that
IP FS and then make sure that if we do
any deletions that we're also removing
that reap revise logic yeah I guess like
I think we all know kind of like where
it's at but um it'd be good for someone
you know because a lot of people are
asking about using it or be good for
people who are external to have like a
road map and say okay this is what's
missing this is what they were working
on and the other thing I'd say is that I
think we should not rush it because you
know the NGO DHT kind of got released
and thousands of people literally
thousands of people using it and there's
all sorts of different versions out
there with different bugs and so you
know that makes it difficult then to
like the DHT is is is a huge mesh and
network of nodes that have to interact
cooperatively so like we have to try and
get it as good as we can and as bug free
as we can before it becomes widely
available you know I'm saying yep
I agree we were saying like it's like
requires very extensive testing and like
we've been talking about it for a while
that's like white projects such as the
test lab I've been like taught true and
tried multiple times to make sure that
we have a testing ground to check these
things the thing I would add though like
so if you go back to the issue about
like achieving quick video magic like
the HD is really just like one piece of
the puzzle like this is just by
intuition but I would expect like most
users of Jessica Fest which will be
browser notes will actually be more
interested on using delegated routing
right so think thinking about like
someone like is using it on a browser
like they are used to go to a pencil a
great way like they are used to use a go
offense know to search for the content
they're pretty happy with it
like we just professed like if they can
get a note in a network through the
heavy work for them rather than waiting
over a long time for a browser to do
like thousands of connections to relays
I think will give like a better user
experience and I get it immediately
that's what people want at least for the
the first web applications they want to
get the content like it's not even about
like is this like doing every single
step that we envisioned and so keep
getting the delegated browning out of
the door and I making sure that we have
the infrastructure monitoring between
true that like that is always worth
paying or at least like a Status page
like checks hey I gotta realize working
properly like our other notes the
preload node is working properly so that
people like rely on on those heads to
like get content on their apps in and
again like the HP will always be very
resource-intensive
for any just because no and so it should
be like a second solution and like a
backup solution unless like the specific
application that is getting developed
doesn't want to rely I like rely
primarily on any kind of deployed
infrastructure right so I guess my
question is how far are we from saying
we can deploy they will get it routing
in like trust that in like the top users
but if that is what these doing
underneath
yeah I think for delegate routing we
have the support there the biggest thing
is getting support on either the Gateway
nodes or dedicated notes to actually
turn on that end point does that kind of
got lost in the deployment shuffle when
we were kind of moving in for team
people around
yes that was originally going to be like
a deployable configuration but now it's
just run on startup config so I think
that's something we just need to resync
with IT on getting that configuration
actually deployed somewhere because
right now it's if you're gonna IPF eyes
io it's no longer deployed there
I think the beta was originally when we
were playing around with it but it's not
more got it so so yeah you got lost in
translation but I could again like from
from the perspective of like getting
from like no solution to a solution like
I look like it's way closer as Jacobi
saying like there is already like tests
and like the thing which is ins to get
deployed to like focusing the HD energy
on getting this piece of infrastructure
on will like save as all from many users
that try a thing in trail and give up go
away right yeah this is just like my
recommendation here just making sure
that we don't lose all the options that
make sense and I you know I think that's
we definitely want to try and give our
user the best experience possible I just
want to confirm one thing we the this is
like the delegated reading is kind of
like a short term medium term solution
right or are we or we think that's gonna
be the long term solution it's an option
so like the way that early peer-to-peer
was designed was to make sure that like
we can I have mu deal with this
plug-and-play
right and so for delegated routing you
have the peer routing that is delegated
just to find the peers integrate to them
for content running like if you think
that your simple thing turns archive
like would really benefit from having
like just like a data base on their side
where they have like all of the ashes
all the the things that they are
providing is there like 40 petabytes
like serving all that is HP is just like
Mass in America connections and I think
that
have to serve provide 40 petabytes every
12 hours
just like manna I just do that and
Counting and like you see our - TV ads
and so getting like delegated
controlling where someone can just say
oh like I want to access like the
internet that I said so I've been just
every time I do a query that is within
this understand I'm just going to peanut
endpoint like you know like whether it
is will make the experience much faster
and so it's not that the end game
solution it's one of them in in like in
the future what we should expect or what
we should create is a platform where
users can understand like what is that
the flavors right like what is that the
pieces of sleep you hear that they want
to use and ipfs I'm like the talking's
and I just take the solution there like
as different guarantees from current ESP
performance bandwidth usage storage you
just privacy censorship positions and so
on like my tea like you should almost
have like a machine where if we call the
buttons and say okay here's your like
and no ice cream cone with all the
toppings you want to hear only pure pure
by my writing and just like no you use
this and I be like it's the the feature
set in this mmm the PDP ice cream oh so
what I can do is take as an action item
- for the DHT PR that's open create a
more meta issue for tracking all this
stuff that we just talked about like
direction we want to go and what stuff
needs to get done for that and then what
other options are available in terms of
that for like delegate routing on why
not just so we can keep track of it and
have that visibility there is this like
achieving connectivity magic issue like
a it's really okay if it's like too
messy right now and close it and like
clean Ewan but but I think it's worth to
you just look at it just before opening
anyone I'll just like posted
14:59
yep yeah I'll go over there as well okay
we are slightly over time so we will go
ahead and end it there um and we will
see you all next week for another
exciting episode of core dev weekly sync
bye everybody